Now we are sending the request via fetch, but Angular comes with a built in client.
Fetch is not available in old version of browsers, so if your app would be running in one of those
then it's better to use a HTTP client coming with Angular.
For future reference, you can go to this page and check more information about the client.
Now let's use this one in our project.
First thing is we are going to import this one in app module.
This HTTP client belongs to HTTP client module and right here in the modules, this energy module module
imports part.
We are going to import HTTP client
module.
So this is coming from
right here, http client module from angular common http.
So we import this one now in our component.
We can inject this HTTP client.
So Angular has a dependency injection functionality and we can ask Angular to provide us the dependencies.
Like for instance, in this one we will need HTTP client and we can tell to Angular to inject this component
via the constructor.
And here in the constructor we are requiring this HTTP client.
This is the variable name and it is going to be HTTP client type.
So this one and let's make this is to private to this class.
Now whenever this component is created by Angular, it's going to be injecting the HTTP client to it.
Now we can use the HTTP client right here in the click sign apart.
Just commenting out this fetch section.
We are going to remove this one eventually, but let's keep it as commented out.
So here I'm going to call.
We can access to the HTTP client like this.
We are going to send the post request and has this post function.
And the first parameter it is looking for is the URL and the URL is API one zero users.
And the second parameter is the body.
We are sending.
And in this body we will have a username and is this username?
The second one is email email.
And the third one is password.
So we are generating this object.
This is the request body and we are posting it to this URL.
This HTP client library is using our exchanges and there is this observable pattern.
This is an observable and to make this is typical, we need to subscribe to this one and it is taking
a callback at the moment.
We can just leave it empty like this and let's save this one.
And let's test this one on browser.
Just opening the console.
Clearing the locks here and let's fill the form.
A.
B, c.
C.
So here, when we send the request, if we check the payload, we have the values we are entering to
these fields.
So basically this functionality is working as it was working with the fetch.
But if we check our test console.
Here we see 11 of 12 tests are failing.
And if you check the list, basically all of the tests of the signup component are failing.
And the reason is here it is saying now injector error and.
It's saying that no provider for a client.
Now our component is using this dependency HTP client and in browser we have tested this working, but
the tests are failing because the test module does not know anything about where this HTTP client is
coming from.
In that module we have imported this HTTP client module and that is bringing the typical line.
But in test, let's open that one sign up component spec ts in test we are just having this signup component.
So in testing module, we don't know anything about the the typical line.
So the fix is just like importing the typical line to right here.
We will import it in the test as well.
So first copy the import of this module.
Then just like having this import array, we can also have the same thing here.
So there is this import array and in this one we have the HTP client module.
So saving it.
Now only one test is failing and that one is the one we are checking the request body.
And if you remember.
In that one.
We are mocking the fetch.
Now there is no fetch.
Therefore, this assertion is based on the SPI function we have here.
And since it is never get cold, this part is failing.
Now Angler comes with the testing functionality of this HTTP client module, and instead of directly
using the strategic client module here, we can use the testing version of it and that is HTP client
testing module.
And it is coming from angular common HTTP four slash testing.
So we can just replace the HTTP client module with this one.
And there is one another thing.
It is HTTP testing controller, TB testing control.
Let's import that one as well.
And in this test.
In this one.
Instead of having this spy, we can get the.
The testing controller.
And with this testing controller, we can check that request.
We can access to the request details and we can get the request body or how many times that request
has been made.
We can do those kinds of things via this HTP testing controller and let's make sure we are able to access
that instance in this test module.
And we can do that by using test bed and we ask it to inject a CTP testing controller to here and let's
have this as variable IP testing controller.
So here after clicking the button, we can use HTTP testing controller to access the request and we
can do like this HTTP testing controller.
This is the variable we have here in this test and we are expecting one call to be made to this URL
API one zero users and this is returning back to the request object.
And.
Let's say this is the request object.
And from this object we can get the actual request, body request.
His request.
Let's change this one to something like.
Rick.
And from this one request.
And from this request, we can access to the body.
And this is assigned to a variable like this request, buddy.
So we have the buddy now, and instead of using the spy thing we can have right here, we can get the
request, buddy.
Like we expect this request body to equal.
Now, this is going to be an object, not a JSON string.
So like, we can just compare this one with this object, with this object.
So let's save this one.
And here we can see the tests are passing, so we have replaced the fetch.
Fetch usage right here with the HTTP client coming with the angular.